Article 1: “Runaways” Designing an alternative game for teens by Marsha Kinder on Jul 26 1999

As someone that was born in the 1990s, I found this article really interesting because besides knowing the shows like Muppet Babies
and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Marsha was referring how media was influencing kids born in the time. Because I was born in the 1990s,
I was able to see how media was changing and how there were introducing new technologies or improving the technology for a bigger scale
for entertainment like the internet. I like how this article talks about how kids are now more empowered, as they have access to technology
in a really early age. 

I like how she talks about that a long time ago there were no toys, and everyone was bored, but then they had TV, but they were still
bored again. I agree with this. As new media changes during time kids or people just get bored and they move on with the next new thing.
Like right now the most entertaining tool of technology is the smart phones. This made her want to get involved in designing electronic
games that made kids feel empowered but without any of the consumerism and violence. Sadly, video games right now are in a really bad
position as there is loot creates systems implemented in really popular games. This make some players spend a lot of money for a chance
to get what they want.

I can see how during the 90s was really popular to have fictional characters to transform or shape-shift into something different.
This trope enters the popular imagination of global cultures as an optimistic myth or comic transformation that were found in popular
movies during that time like “The Mask,” or music like “Black or White,” from Michel Jackson. This was really true because I used to be
a big fan of the movie as well the tropes for toys that one could change their shapes by moving their body parts of the toy. As well was
interesting as one keeps changing as one keep growing up. This was one of the basic ideas for creating a project base in experimental
game for teens who desperately want to change their lives. She wanted to created a game that allows kids to play around with images
of their own gender and sexuality without fear, to challenge cultural stereotypes and to realize that these concepts are largely
socially and historically constructed. This was a head of its time and it would had help them with their insecurity. Also, during
the 90s in the video game industry was more target to boys because they had the believe than girls were not that interested in
video games, so they would do less representation of females in video games.

As the article continues it get more personal with problems of run away teens that had struggle of being jugged by their family by their
actions and even abuse. So, the main project of their game is to help teens. It was interesting to read how they tested a prototype
of the game on a Latina teen name Rita that run away because she was in love with an older Asian guy. This game was a head of its time
because “Runaways” was design not only could address both girls and boys but also might motive cross gender play. This options gave more
attention to issues of gender and sexuality. It was a lot different that the regular games that are just base violence or to have a simple
goal to save the world.

I found interesting this article because as someone that was burn during the 90s, I didn’t know there was such game around. I do like
the idea of a game like that. It could had help so many teens, but now social media is really big. Now is more acceptable with their
preferences and people get less judge. Still was enjoyable to read and how hard they tried to make the game to help the teens.
It can maybe be refined into an indie game in the future.
