For the assigned journals, I read David Sandoval’s Intellectual Property in the Age of Digital Reproduction and 
Jennifer McCoy’s Our Work in 4 Ltrs. (or less). These articles were very interesting and entertaining, as it 
connected to me on a personal level. The first article tackles how art and technology has evolved and 
intersected with each other, and the other one is an amusing article that dives into an article that does 
not have any words longer than four characters. 

Intellectual Property in the Age of Digital Reproduction discusses the plans of the Graffiti Research Lab, 
which is to combat the proliferation of corporate media and ads across the urban landscape. The GRL also plans 
on using graffiti technologies to promote social change.. As an aspiring graffiti artist, I was surprised and 
excited upon reading this information. Graffiti has been seen by society as vandalism because of the places 
where it is created on. Although there are a number of people who are against this form of art, there are 
still some people who support the idea behind it. 

But GRL created a powerful technology where their information’s accessibility is public. This is dangerous, 
as other companies could use it to their own advantage. This is where the issue of Intellectual Property and 
lawsuits come in. Personally, I wish that GRL would close the accessibility to the public and just do their 
plans internally. This will help them have less problems within other industries. This article also tackled 
the usage of Creative Commons. As I became more aware of copyright usage and privacy, I knew that Creative 
Commons was the site to use if I needed stock photos or music. Nowadays, people just download or save any 
kind of media online. With the growth and expansion of the internet, people became more careless about the 
media they use on their social media accounts. “The digitalization of media has entered new uncharted ground 
which needs to be addressed. Creative Commons licenses are a good quick fix to these issues, especially with 
regard to artists trying to make their product “free” but not to corporations which do not align with their 
message.” A lot of intellectual property of artists are being used with no consent, which creates a lot of 
problems involving boundaries and privacy.

The second article, Our Work in 4 Ltrs (or less), is a creative article involving words that are no longer 
than four letters. This reminded me of a poem because of the usage of rhyming words. But this article is more 
than just its words and sentences. It tackles the importance of unity in creating art. “We can talk to you of 
the idea of play, of data, of code, of a rule, of two who make work, idea by idea, side by side.” This article 
discusses the evolution of collaboration between artists. As technology evolves, collaboration involving the 
usage of new machines like computers grows as well. The article mentioned the usage of coding, and how their 
romance grew within their love for art. It was an interesting piece, and I would definitely recommend this to 
anyone.
