Rawsthorn responds by giving examples of why design is important and how we ultimately use good design to fix the problems we encounter in our lives. The first example was how during the SARS epidemic in China and how the designer’s motivation was spurned by money to keep putting himself at risk every time he visited China in order to finish his product. I personally understand both sides, as a designer myself I know the drive to finish what one started, especially when it is something you have created yourself no matter what circumstance. However, if the outbreak did not happen would the product have remained the same output? Or would it have been something completely different given the circumstances? 
An example of impact of good design Rawsthorn gave was that of Aimee Mullen. She was a bilateral amputee and still managed to set three world records for the 100m, 200m and long jump at the 1996 Paralympic Games. However, when she was first learning to walk using prosthetics they were designed for basic use and even then, they did not perform very well for an active child like Aimee Mullens. But, with the help of the Biomechatronic group she went from rudimentary stilts to fantastic cheetah style prosthetics which were designed to function better in conjunction with the user’s own muscular system. 
I never imagined that there was so much behind the scenes work when construction the World Cup Adidas soccer balls. But when you look at it everything is designed for a purpose or has a meaning behind it. As a soccer player, I always has to test the feel of a ball before I chose it for the season. I could tell a cheap ball was made because it had no grip and was to slick to kick even when dry. I now understand the meticulous planning and designing of what goes into the entirety of the tournament. Not to mention Rawsthorn adds that a ball with good design integrates various other factors, such as the density differences from one country to the next. Rawsthorn gives excellent examples of goof and bad design and this was an interesting read for me because as a product designer I see the various thought from step one to the final product from the designers’ point of view. 
