Bad Design Surprisingly Helps
Design is an important part of modern-day life. It serves as a function in everything we use on a daily basis and is greatly impacted by bad design. The difference between bad and good design is substantial. Good design allows users to use a product and/or feature without issue or complication. The product is far from perfect, but stands as an independent step towards future progression. Bad design on the other hand, prohibits advancement. What I mean when I say prohibits advancement is that the product or service has errors making progression difficult to achieve due to the fixes needing to be made. For example, Samsung released a folding phone! It’s funny to say that in 2019 due to flat and thin touch screens taking over the mobile market. The idea was quite ambitious. A folding touch screen phone, that opens up to a larger connected screen. Their first release was what you’d call a failure. While the design was a sight to be seen, the screen itself posed some issues. Users ended up pealing off a protective coating that disabled the screen functionality. The phone got recalled and the developers where sent back to the drawing board. The thing is Good design relies on trial and error. You achieve good design from bad design. You are able to learn from mistakes made to improve design elements to create a product or service that the user will love. 
The article brings up prosthetics as an example design improvement over the years. Starting with an idea the logical solution began with a wooden peg. It bought many issues along with it while solving the basic problem. So, then the question became how to we fix the issues present in the previous version to apply them to the new iteration. The progression took time but has come a long way since it’s invention. One of the craziest advancements came with applying technology to this concept. How can one move using a prosthetic? These questions brought change to not only the prosthetic industry, but to the developer’s approach to advancing the product forward. 
The soccer ball, for instance, is another example of a product with progression. When you think of a soccer ball you automatically assume there isn’t too much to change. Afterall, it is just a ball. Surprisingly enough there is always change to be made in everything, even a soccer ball. Every player has preferences when it comes to playing a game. Some prefer the ball to be softer, some harder; each perspective has changes that can all be implemented in production. The only issue is, if one fix is applied, some players will be at a disadvantage while others it could benefit. In terms of production, items and products like this require a more neutral and unbiased design to aid each player’s style and preference. 
Design allows changes to be made to everyday products and services. Bad design allows us to obtain feedback to help assist developers in creating a Good design.
