In the first episode of Ways of Seeing, John Berger address the rise of image reproduction and sharing due to the advancement of technology. He discusses about the value of original and authentic pieces of art and their importance in our culture and society. This places us at a crossroad: what are the significant differences between an original work and a reproduction? Berger argues that the meaning of artworks can be transmitted and changed through their context. This means that a painting’s impact can be changed by different factors, such as the medium is it shown on, its physical location, the sound and/or music being paired with it, and more. Therefore, reproductions allow others to apply their own messages to works of art and share those messages with others.

I wholeheartedly agree with the stance that Berger takes here. In the past, art was not easily reproduced. This meant that a piece of work had a much smaller audience, and it was likely easier to contain the artist’s original message. However, now that reproductions of art allow for them to be shared much more easily, a lot more people are exposed to these works. As more people become familiar with them, new interpretations are formulated and applied to them.

In the second episode of Ways of Seeing, Berger takes on the treatment of women in art. Women were the main subject of nudes. In those paintings, they were seen as objects rather than as their own person. The subject of the artwork were held to ridiculous and hypocritical standards by the men painting them, and they were always portrayed in such a way to appeal to men. Berger then talked to several different women to gain insight on how women themselves view nudes. What they tell him is that the feeling that they glean from the nudes are that they are very voyeuristic, reductive, and objectifying. One woman in particular explains that men always seem to get their own identity and sense of worth, whereas women are always waiting for others, therefore taking away their agency and independence. Another woman says that a major issue is that real life women must always try to measure up to the fantasy of the dream women featured in paintings.

As a female, I found this segment very interesting to watch. Berger makes many great points about women in art, and the women he talks to do so as well. Though they talk about art, all of their points can be applied to how women fare in society. Women are still seen as nothing more than visual fodder and less than a man in a number of ways. It is up to women ourselves to break away from those antiquated standards and find our identities and sense of worth.

In the third episode of Ways of Seeing, Berger discusses the oil painting and where the value of these paintings come from. The materials and subject of these works were often done in a way to reflect the wealth of commissioners. Basically, it was the medieval way of flexing on others, but that doesn’t detract from these paintings’ significance or achievements. However, they do not have the same purpose or significance as traditional artworks.

I found this interesting. I did not know that commissioners would have such extravagant demands. Though these works clearly go above and beyond in terms of quality and excess, Berger is right when he says they do not hold the same purpose or significance as traditional artworks. This is because those types of paintings were created for the commissioner’s own gain and attempt to flaunt their wealth, whereas classical works of arts had deeper meanings and backgrounds to them. 

In the fourth episode of Ways of Seeing, Berger proposes that photography has taken the place of oil paintings in our culture and society. This is because photography is even more powerful than paintings - photographs are closer to reality and connect to audiences more. Thus, we are sold fantasies that we can never hope to achieve but still attempt to achieve anyway through shallow methods and material ways. In the end, everything you see is tainted by your own personal perceptions.

I think Berger’s insight in this final episode is fascinating. I haven’t ever thought of photography taking the place of paintings; I have always seen them as separate entities, but it seems that the two concepts are closer than expected. It is true that photographs have bigger impacts on people. This is because we can easily envision ourselves in those positions. The rise of photography and the subsequent drop of paintings has caused our society to be more easily swayed by false things; or “glamour,” as Berger mentions a couple of times.
