My personal definition of Design Fiction is similar Bleecker’s definition wherein design fiction is a “mix of science fact, design and science fiction”. I believe this definition is similar to my own definition where I think a healthy mixture of design and fiction go hand in hand together. However, I also believe that design is fiction is slightly more realistic compared to science fiction. I think of science fiction as a more fantastic, but heavily romanticized fiction where one can imagine the endless possibilities that may become the normal one day. Whereas I think of design fiction as a possible and practical thing we could head towards using or creating new processes we know of today. I personally like to think that design fiction would not only help advance, but also heavily benefit society in the way we go about forwarding our own products and processes.
In terms of examples, I believe we could point towards China utilizing the facial recognition software for better or for worse. Where China is using it to oppress and put down dissent of their own system. And unfortunately, with the abuse of this new tool, it gives the public a new fear and avoidance of something that could be potentially helpful. 1984 by George Orwell comes to mind when thinking of this specific example because China is literally in the role of the authoritarian government or Big Brother. 
If I were to begin my own design fiction then I would begin with what is currently causing a lot of people issues and then design something to alleviate that issue. I would want to help create something that would help the elderly since everyone gets old and needs help one day. I would want to create something that would help rather than make people fear it like the earlier example I pointed out. I may want to create a senior friendly integration product to keep up with news or for exercise. 
I believe Science fiction helps give us a glimpse of the possibilities of design but not how to. It’s giving someone a finished product, but leave them wondering of how and when to make it. I believe science fiction could help push design fiction in terms of expanding ideas to designers.  
